you're listening to a teaching from Reality LA.
I'll be preaching today on Acts chapter 15, the beginning of 16, and calling this everyday mission.
And you know, throughout 2026, our vision as a church is to be on mission with Jesus and acts as a blueprint for mission in Los Angeles.
And we've been in Acts for over a year,
But since we've taken a little break, I want to refresh our collective memory of what this book is about and bring any new people up to speed.
So in the New Testament, the four gospels tell the story of Jesus.
They proclaim the good news that he lived the perfect life and died on the cross for our sins and rose from the grave to establish the kingdom of God on earth as it is in heaven.
And then Acts is the sequel.
It's the sequel that tells the story of the early church and how it went from a small group of disciples hiding in an upper room to a gospel movement that would spread throughout the Roman Empire and eventually the whole world.
But it's not as if Jesus finished his work and then it's just up to the church to do their part.
No, in fact, here's my one sentence summary of the book of Acts.
Jesus advances his mission through the church by the power of the Spirit.
That's the book of Acts.
And you can see this in Acts 1, 8, which is like a thesis statement for the book.
There, Jesus says to his disciples, you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem and Judea and Samaria and to the end of the earth.
And that actually functions as a kind of table of contents for the entire book of Acts because then,
Chapters one through seven, they're witnessing to Jesus in Jerusalem.
In chapters eight through 12, they're witnessing to Jesus in Judea and Samaria.
And then in chapters 13 through 28, they're going to the end of the earth.
And what happens in the second half of the book, in chapters 13 to 28, is you have Paul's three missionary journeys that are going through the major urban centers of the Mediterranean world.
And so where we come into the story today in Acts chapter 15 is the beginning of the second missionary journey.
They just finished the first missionary journey where they traveled over a thousand miles all over the region of Galatia preaching the gospel and planting churches.
And now
They're back in Antioch where they're getting ready to set out on the second missionary journey where they're gonna revisit some of the earlier churches and then plant more churches in cities like Philippi, Thessalonica, and Corinth.
And at one level, this passage that we're looking at today is amazing.
I mean, the mission of Jesus breaks into a whole new part of the world.
But on the other hand, it's very ordinary.
It reads like a travel journal full of normal human challenges, like relational conflict, cultural tension, and hard decisions.
And here's why I'm so excited for this ordinary passage.
When we think of mission, we often think of big, heroic moments, like the apostles are filled with the spirit doing miracles before big crowds to the glory of God.
But this passage reminds us
The mission is not just heroic moments, it's ordinary faithfulness.
It happens not just on Sundays, but every day.
I think of a mom who prays for her kids every night, no spotlight, no stage, just faithfulness.
That's mission.
I think of someone who invites their coworker to lunch, to build a relationship.
That's not dramatic, but that's how the gospel begins to move.
And so the mission of Jesus
moves forward through ordinary people navigating real life.
And that means that you don't have to be an apostle to be a part of the mission.
You don't need a stage.
You're not required to have a dramatic conversion story.
You just need to be faithful where God has called you.
And so Jesus advances his mission through ordinary faithfulness in everyday life.
That's what we're going to learn in this passage.
So let me read this for us.
I'm starting an ax.
chapter 15 verse 36, and I'm going to read through chapter 16 verse 10.
Acts chapter 15, starting in verse 36.
And after some days, Paul said to Barnabas, let us return and visit the brothers in every city where we proclaimed the word of the Lord and see how they are.
Now Barnabas wanted to take with him John called Mark.
But Paul fought best not to take with them, one who had withdrawn from them in Pamphylia and had not gone with them to the work.
And there arose a sharp disagreement so that they separated from each other.
Barnabas took Mark with him and sailed away to Cyprus.
But Paul chose Silas and departed, having been commended by the brothers to the grace of the Lord.
And he went through Syria and Solisia, strengthening the churches.
Paul came also to Derby and to Lystra.
A disciple was there named Timothy, the son of a Jewish woman who was a believer, but his father was a Greek.
He was well-spoken of by the brothers at Lestra and Iconium.
Paul wanted Timothy to accompany him, and he took him and circumcised him because of the Jews who were in those places, for they all knew that his father was a Greek.
As they went on their way through the cities, they delivered to them for observance the decisions that had been reached by the apostles and elders who were in Jerusalem.
So the churches were strengthened in the faith and they increased in numbers daily.
And they went through the region of Virginia and Galatia, having been forbidden by the Holy Spirit to speak the word in Asia.
And when they had come up from Missia, they attempted to go into Bithynia, but the spirit of Jesus did not allow them.
So passing by Missia, they went down to Troas.
And a vision appeared to Paul in the night, a man of Macedonia was standing there urging him and saying, come over to Macedonia and help us.
And when Paul had seen the vision immediately, we sought to go into Macedonia concluding that God had called us to preach the gospel to them.
This is God's word, pray with me.
God, we're here this morning because you are a missional God.
You have chosen to enter into this broken world and pursue us in your love.
And so God, we pray this morning that we would have an encounter with you, the living God, the loving God, the one who pursues us with mercy and grace.
And God, we pray that that encounter would transform us and draw us into the beautiful work that you're doing in this city.
And God, we thank you for epic moments, for dramatic stories.
We see you in that.
But God, we also pray that you would teach us to be faithful with little.
to be faithful to you in quiet moments, in unseen moments.
And God, we pray that in all of that, that your mission would advance throughout this city.
We pray this in Jesus' name, amen, amen.
All right, so this passage is teaching us that mission isn't just about bold personalities or dramatic moments.
No, Jesus advances his mission through ordinary faithfulness.
And throughout this passage, we're gonna see that in three ordinary
areas of life.
And the first is that Jesus advances his mission in conflict.
And so we see this at the very beginning, pick up with me again in verse 36.
It says, and after some days, after the first missionary journey, Paul said to Barnabas, let us return and visit the brothers in every city where we proclaim the word of the Lord and see how they are.
So right out the gate, we learn a really key principle here for discipleship.
And that is,
Follow up, follow up is a key aspect of discipleship.
Paul and Barnabas had gone and preached the gospel and planted churches and now he wants to follow up with them.
And so that's really important for us.
We pray for people, we share the gospel and then we follow up with them.
How are you doing?
How can I be praying for you?
Hey, that thing I prayed for you about, how's that going?
How can I keep praying for you?
Paul's goal is not to create a flash, but to form disciples and rooted communities.
And to do that requires a ministry of follow up.
But as they set out, a problem arises.
Look at verse 37.
Now Barnabas wanted to take with them John called Mark, but Paul thought best not to take with them, one who had withdrawn from them in Pamphylia and had not gone with them to do the work.
and there arose a sharp disagreement so that they separated from each other.
So, what happens here is this guy named John Mark, or John called Mark, had traveled with them on their first journey, but for some reason he dropped out, he withdrew, and we don't know why.
And so Barnabas wanted to take John Mark with them on their second missionary journey, and Paul didn't.
And it simply says that they had a sharp
disagreement.
Now, this was a big deal.
This isn't like a minor conflict.
This is a massive conflict.
I want you to feel the weight of this.
Paul and Barnabas were incredibly close personally.
I mean, when Paul became a follower of Jesus and nobody trusted him, Barnabas was the one who vouched for him and took him under his wing.
These two men spent years traveling together, hundreds of miles on the road.
They were close, and not only were they close personally, they were public partners in ministry.
They led the church and Antioch together for a year.
And if that's not enough, this public disagreement happens immediately after the most unifying event in the whole book of Acts, the Jerusalem Council, earlier in Acts 15.
So this wasn't minor tension.
It was painful.
It was personable.
personal, and it would have been deeply disappointing to everyone there.
And it's clear that this disagreement between Paul and Barnabas, it wasn't about theology or character.
It was a difference in opinion over strategy.
Do you take John Mark on this mission or not?
And yet what's interesting is that Luke, the author of Acts, he doesn't focus on the content of the disagreement.
And he doesn't tell us who he thinks was right.
Luke is not interested in who is right in the dispute, but that it results in two teams going out in different direction for mission.
So pick up with me in verse 39 again, says, and there arose a sharp disagreement so that they separated from each other.
Barnabas took Mark with him and sailed away to Cyprus, but Paul chose Silas and departed, having been commended by the brothers to the grace of the Lord.
And he went through Syria and Cilicia, strengthening the churches.
So again, Luke doesn't tell us who won the argument.
What he tells us is where the gospel went next.
Two teams, two directions, more ground covered.
This wasn't a fracture, it was a multiplication.
And so the mission doesn't stop because of conflict, it moves forward through it.
And what amazes me is that Luke could have left this story out.
Like he's telling the story of the early church.
He could have left this out.
and he didn't.
He's not putting an Instagram filter on the early church or airbrushing the mission to make it appear polished and problem-free.
He wants the church to know, mission is hard.
It's messy.
We are broken people who are declaring to other broken people that there is one who can make us whole.
And so the book of Acts refuses to romanticize the mission, and instead, it invites us into a movement that's powerful and spirit-led, and yet is deeply human and costly and imperfect.
And it reveals a God who advances his mission, not in spite of our conflict, but often through our conflict.
And if this is happening in the book of Acts between two of the godliest people in the New Testament, then it's definitely gonna happen amongst us.
But conflict isn't necessarily bad.
It's a normal part of ministry and mission.
Sometimes we look at the world and we see conflict and we wonder, where is God?
Sometimes we look at the church and we see conflict and we wonder, where is God?
Sometimes we look at our lives and we see conflict and we wonder, where is God?
But this passage teaches us that God is right there.
in the midst of the conflict, at work and all of it, advancing his mission, showing his patience and maturing his people.
So what about for you personally?
Where do you have conflict in your life?
Some of you have conflict at work.
Maybe God is using it to advance his mission.
Some of you have conflict in your marriage.
Maybe God is teaching you to love sacrificially instead of conditionally.
Some of you have conflict in friendship.
Maybe God is inviting you to pursue reconciliation instead of quiet resentment.
Some of you have conflict in the church.
Maybe God is surfacing deeper issues that need healing in community.
God doesn't waste conflict.
He uses it to multiply his mission and to display his patience.
And so we have this sharp disagreement.
from with Paul and Barnabas, and it's actually what results in the very beginning of Paul's second missionary journey.
But I want to make two qualifications as we talk about this sharp disagreement.
One is that you can't use this to justify being a jerk, okay?
You can't be a person of conflict and say, well, clearly Paul and Barnabas disagreed, so it's fine for me to be a disagreeable person all the time.
Okay, there's nothing indicated here that what they did was ungodly.
They had a disagreement about strategy and mission.
So you can't use this to be a jerk.
The second thing is you can't use this to justify not sticking together through difficulty in community.
So there is a time to agree to disagree and go separate ways.
There is a time for that.
But that comes in the context of what we've seen throughout acts that in order to discover true community, we have to be willing to stay when it's hard.
We have to be willing to sacrifice.
We have to be willing to meet people halfway and strive forward in relationships even when it's difficult.
And so this story isn't minimizing conflict.
It's showing that we can't let it derail the mission.
And just so you know, because this is tense, this was a sharp disagreement.
But just so you know, Paul and John Mark did reconcile.
I mean, John Mark must have been hurt by this at some level.
Paul did not want to bring him because he dropped out the last time.
But later in the New Testament, Paul refers to John Mark and he refers to him as his fellow worker and talks about how useful he is for the mission of Christ.
And then as for Barnabas,
This is actually the last that we hear of Barnabas.
At the end of Acts 15, he quietly walks off the stage of biblical history.
And so, can we just pause to give Barnabas his flowers for a minute?
I mean, Barnabas was a pillar of the early church.
Think about what we saw so far.
In Acts 4, he sells his property and gives the money to the church.
In Acts 9, he takes Paul under his wing when nobody else believes him.
In Acts 11, he leads the church in Antioch.
That's the first multicultural church and becomes the hub of all these missionary movements.
In Acts 13, he sets out on the first missionary journey with Paul.
And then in Acts 15, he fades into the background as a model disciple maker.
You know, the kingdom of God is full of Barnabas' faithful, generous, courageous people who don't need the spotlight to be significant.
And so what do we learn from the first part of this passage?
Well, Jesus advances his mission through ordinary faithfulness in everyday life, even in conflict.
But conflict isn't the only everyday challenge here.
There's another one that we face constantly, and that is cultural difference.
different backgrounds, different customs, different assumptions.
And if the gospel is going to move forward in a diverse world, it can't stay locked inside of one culture.
And so second, we see this.
Jesus advances his mission through ordinary faithfulness across cultures.
And the early church, we have to be mindful of this, the early church developed in a very multicultural context.
Think about it, you have Jews,
in a society that was politically ruled by Rome and culturally shaped by Greece.
So they lived in a multicultural society.
Most of them spoke multiple languages and were very skillful in going back and forth into one context to the other.
And so pick up with me in chapter 16, verse one, says this, Paul also came to Derby and Lystra.
A disciple was there named Timothy, the son of a Jewish woman who was a believer, but his father was a Greek.
He was well-spoken of by the brothers at Listra and Iconium.
So we just said goodbye to Barnabas.
And now we say hello to Timothy, a new character in this story.
And Timothy will become a significant figure in the Bible.
In fact, he goes on to co-author five New Testament letters with Paul.
He has two books of the New Testament that are named after him, which are letters that Paul wrote to Timothy.
And he becomes a key pastor in the church in Ephesus.
But here we learn a little bit about Timothy's origin story.
Here we're told that Timothy has a mixed ethnic background.
His mother was Jewish and his father was Greek.
And I know that many of you are mixed race or come from mixed cultural backgrounds.
And that's difficult sometimes in conversations in our society about race.
You don't know where you fit in.
Timothy is your guy.
He gets it.
He totally gets it.
And Timothy's mixed ethnic background isn't a minor detail of this story.
But we have to remember what happened in chapter 15 right before this.
The gospel is going to the nations
And a dispute arises about whether people from other nations need to be circumcised like the Jews or not.
And the core question, the question beneath the question here is, do you have to shed your culture and become culturally Jewish in order to be a Christian?
That's what they were debating.
And so the Jerusalem Council gives a definitive answer in chapter 15, and that is no.
That the gospel is for all nations, and the church will be a community made up of every tribe, tongue, people, and nation.
Every culture has beauty that reflects God's intent for creation, and it has brokenness that needs healing in Christ.
And so as the gospel goes from the Jews to the Gentiles, Timothy, who is part Jew, part Gentile, will be a key bridge for the mission.
So pick up then in verse three, it goes on and says,
Paul wanted Timothy to accompany him, and he took him and circumcised him because of the Jews who were in those places, for they all knew that his father was a Greek.
So, something really interesting happens here.
Paul takes Timothy with him, and it says that he circumcises him.
Now, Timothy's a grown man, okay?
He's not a child, he's not an infant, so we're gonna talk about some real sacrifice for the mission of Christ here, okay?
Timothy's a grown man, Paul circumcises him.
And what's strange about this is that what we learn in Acts 15 is that circumcision is not required to become a follower of Jesus.
You don't have to become culturally Jewish to be a Christian.
And so if that's the case, and Paul is taking Timothy to actually spread the news of what they decided in Acts 15, then why in the world did Paul circumcise Timothy?
That doesn't seem to make sense.
Well, I'll tell you why.
Because Paul isn't concerned with expressing his freedom, but rather laying down his cultural preferences for the mission.
And in our culture, freedom means if I have a right, I should exercise it.
My autonomy matters most or no one can tell me what to do.
But for the Christian, freedom is not the right to do whatever I want.
It's the ability to lay down what I want for the sake of love.
This is what the Apostle Paul was all about.
In 1 Corinthians 9, he says, I have become all things to all people, that by all means, I might save some.
He says to the Jews, I became a Jew, to those under the law, as under the law, to those outside the law, as outside the law, to the weak, I became weak.
And so this isn't compromise, it's cultural flexibility for the sake of mission.
That's what he's doing with Timothy here.
And cultural agility has always been an important
skill for the church in mission.
There's an academic named Andrew Walls, and Andrew Walls was one of the leading scholars of world Christianity in the last century.
He taught at the University of Edinburgh and helped pioneer the academic study of global Christianity.
So the church has been global and is increasingly global, but academics have basically focused on the West for a long time.
And Andrew Wall's really helped broaden this.
But after years of studying how the faith spread across continents, he made a simple but powerful observation.
The story of Christian mission is the story not of changing the gospel, but transmitting it into new cultures, new languages, and new ways of understanding.
So Christianity is not locked into one culture.
The same gospel is embodied differently in a variety of cultures.
And so think about how that's happened historically.
The gospel moved from Jewish synagogues into Greek cities, from the Roman Empire into Celtic villages, from Europe into Africa into Asia.
And every time it crossed a boundary, it didn't change its message, but it took root in new cultural soil.
So Christian mission at its core requires cultural agility.
We wouldn't be here if that wasn't the case because the gospel was translated and transmitted in one culture to the next to another, to a culture that we were in so that we could understand it and be transformed by the good news of Jesus.
That's what we see in Acts 16.
Timothy himself embodies that gospel transmission.
Jewish mother, Greek father, the gospel is crossing boundaries again.
And so this applies to us so much in Los Angeles, which is one of the most culturally diverse cities in the history of the world.
I mean, LA is a melting pot of cultures, and it goes back to its original founding.
In 1781,
Spanish missionaries sent 44 people known as the Pobladores to establish the city of Los Angeles.
But the Pobladores, they consisted of 11 families and had an incredible amount of ethnic diversity.
I mean, these are the founders of the city of Los Angeles.
And listen to the diversity of these 44 people.
There were two Spaniards, two Africans, eight who were mixed Spanish and black, nine Native Americans, and one mestizo, which was a mix of Spanish and Native American.
So our city has been a melting pot of culture from the very beginning.
And today, there are 140 different countries represented in LA.
And it's not just a few people from each.
Did you know?
that there are more Armenians living in Los Angeles than anywhere in the world outside of Armenia.
Did you know that LA has the most Filipinos outside of the Philippines?
LA has the most Salvadorians outside of El Salvador.
LA has the most Guatemalans outside of Guatemala, the most Koreans outside of Korea, the most Vietnamese people outside of Vietnam, the most Cambodians outside of Cambodia.
LA even has the most Australians outside of Australia.
And of course, LA has the most Mexican people outside of Mexico.
So if you want to see the gospel go to the nations, there's no better place to be than in the city of angels.
But to be on mission here, you have to hold firmly to the gospel and also know how to translate it across cultures.
But remember, we're talking about ordinary faithfulness here.
So when I talk about cultural agility and translating the gospel, I'm not talking about being a missionary that goes to the Middle East and learns Arabic and words a hijab.
That's amazing.
Some people are going to be cold to that.
I'm talking about ordinary faithfulness right here in this city.
I'm talking about my neighbor who's Middle Eastern.
How can I learn about his culture so that I can translate the gospel to his context?
Or my other next door neighbor, who's Armenian.
I think about how I've had Armenian brothers and sisters in our church who have helped me understand his culture and context so that I can build relationships, so that I can try and share the gospel with him.
And then, of course, almost half of our city is, or maybe probably more than half of our city, is Spanish speaking.
Por eso estoy aprendiendo español, y précte gartódos los días.
For those of you who aren't tracking, I just said, that's why I'm learning Spanish and why I practice it every day because a lot of my neighbors only speak Spanish and I want to share the love of Jesus with them.
We're talking about translating the gospel here, but of course this doesn't just apply to languages.
I'm even talking about learning the neighborhoods that we live in and how to contextualize the gospel there.
And so in our regional prayer coming up, we're asking the regions, the different regions in our city to identify the idols and opportunities in your region that you live in.
And they're going to be very different from region to region.
So in Santa Monica, there's going to be an idol of career success.
The people are looking to that in place of God.
But in Silver Lake, they're going to say, I don't care about a career.
Like, what is that?
Like, this is an expression of my soul, right?
Like, in a Silver Lake, that's going to be an idol of authenticity.
So my point is that to be on mission in this city,
We have to learn the culture and translate the gospel to people in a way that makes sense to them, that challenges their idols and shows that Jesus is the true fulfillment of their loanings.
But even when we're willing to cross cultures, there's still another challenge that we all face.
It's one thing to know that we're called to mission.
It's another thing to know where to go, what to do, and when to move.
Because everyday mission isn't just about navigating conflict and crossing culture.
It's also about making decisions when direction isn't clear.
And that's what we see next.
Jesus advances his mission through ordinary faithfulness amid uncertainty.
That's what we're gonna see.
They've begun the first missionary journey.
Where do we go?
Who do we talk to?
They gotta make decisions of what's next and it's not easy.
So look at verse six with me.
says, and they went through the region of Phrygia and Galatia, having been forbidden by the Holy Spirit to speak the word in Asia.
And when they had come up to Mysia, they attempted to go into Bithynia, but the spirit of Jesus did not allow them.
So they want to go to Asia, which, by the way, doesn't refer to the whole continent of Asia, how we think of it, but to the Roman province of Asia, which is in modern day Turkey, they want to go there
but it says the Holy Spirit forbids them.
And then they want to go to Bithynia, which is also in modern day Turkey.
And the spirit of Jesus does not allow them.
So they're trying to advance the mission, but they don't know where to go.
And so then pick up in verse eight, says, so passing by Messiah, they went down to Troas.
And a vision appeared to Paul in the night, a man of Macedonia was standing there urging him and saying, come over to Macedonia and help us.
And when Paul had seen the vision immediately, we sought to go into Macedonia, concluding that God had called us to preach the gospel to them.
So Macedonia, we talked about, they wanted to go towards modern day Turkey.
Macedonia was a Roman province in modern day Greece.
And one of its leading cities was Philippi.
We'll learn about that next week.
But Paul has a vision of a man of Macedonia
who beckons him to come there and help him.
But the key is that in verse 10, that it says that after all of this, they concluded that God had called them there to Macedonia.
And some people are gonna read these verses.
And I want you to imagine like, how did this play out for them?
What did it look like?
It said that the Holy Spirit forbid them from going here in the spirit of Jesus, didn't allow them to go there.
And then this man in the Macedonia calls him there.
What did that look like?
Well, some people read it and assume that the Holy Spirit literally showed up and said to them, do not go there.
Or maybe they think that the Holy Spirit came and there was like this force field that the Holy Spirit set out and they tried to walk and like bounced off of it and the Holy Spirit's there like you shall not pass.
You know, I don't know.
They kind of assumed that that's how it played out, that they heard a voice or there was some kind of power, but it doesn't actually say that.
I mean, we don't know how the Holy Spirit forbid them from going.
Maybe the weather was too bad to travel there.
Maybe the local officials wouldn't let them pass.
We don't know.
The point is, is that God closed that door, and then He closed another door, but then He opens another door.
And He does that through a dream.
And after all of this, Paul concludes that God had called us there.
Being called by God doesn't just mean waiting for a voice, but walking through a process of discerning God's will for your life.
That's what we're seeing here.
Paul concluded after all of these things.
So for you, maybe you're asking the question, how do I know where God is calling me for mission?
Well, first of all, this passage assumes that when you're making big decisions in your life, that God's mission is a major factor in it.
So it's not just do we move there because it's comfortable, but will we be on mission there?
It's not just do I take that job, but is that a mission field that God is calling me to?
It's not just do I marry this person because we get along well, but will we be an effective team for sharing the love of Christ?
And so we need to discern God's will and mission plays a major part in that.
And here's the typical approach I think that people have to
discerning God's will.
They either look for a sign or listen to it for a voice.
So maybe God, where should I move?
And they're praying and they open their eyes and they see a license plate from Vermont.
God's calling me to Vermont.
It's a sign from God.
I mean, maybe it's a possibility, right?
But the problem is that when people are either just looking for a sign or listening for a voice, sometimes when they do that, it's just mere superstition, kind of cloaked in spirituality.
Like I think about when I was a kid, I had one of those magic eight balls.
Anybody remember those?
Is this thing that, you know, we don't have them today, but is this like magic eight ball and you would shake it up and it would give you different answers.
So I'd be like, you know, I was like, should I do my homework?
You know, shake it up.
And they'd say, signs point to yes.
I'm like, no, you misheard me shake it up again, you know, until you get something else.
And a lot of people kind of approach God's will in that way, but God is not a magic eight ball.
He's not hiding his will, trying to get you to figure it out so that you can be faithful to him.
He's revealed his will of how you should live.
He calls you to seek first his kingdom, and sometimes God may speak to you in ways that are undeniable.
But whether that happens or not, a sense of calling must include a process of discernment.
Let me say that again.
A sense of calling
must include a process of discernment.
And I would say that that process should involve four different things.
The first is scripture.
What principles from the Bible would speak into a decision that you have to make?
I mean, the Bible's not gonna answer your question, should I move to this city or should I take this job?
But it is gonna tell you a lot of things that might shape your decision-making of what you wait in that process.
So first is Scripture.
Second thing you should take into account in decision-making is prayer.
Scripture says that if we ask God for wisdom that He will give it to us from on high, we need to pray for wisdom and guidance throughout our decision-making process.
Third in this process is community.
If you're sensing a calling and then you're going through a process of discernment, you should involve other people, godly trusted people in your life.
who would pray, who can ask you hard questions, who can go into that process of discernment with you.
And then fourth, this process of discernment should be looking for God's providence.
How do you see God's hand moving in your life and what he's been doing and where he's leading you?
And how that helps you understand what doors he's closing and what doors he's opening.
And so a sense of calling should be followed by a process of discernment that involves scripture, prayer, community, and providence.
And hopefully you can get to a place where you can say with people who have been going through that process with you, it seems good to the Holy Spirit in us.
That's what they did in Acts chapter 15.
That's the goal.
So I think about this even in my own life.
I mean, in 2012, my wife and I were living in Chicago.
And we sense the call to move to Los Angeles and to be a part of this church.
But here's the thing, that process, it was about a nine month process of lots of prayers, lots of conversations, lots of what abouts, lots of what ifs, going back and forth between yes and no, like struggling, like working through it, in our own marriage, like a nine month process.
And at the end of that,
We could say with a clear sense that God is calling us to Los Angeles.
But that wasn't just just hearing a voice and going.
I mean, there was a process of that.
And so that's what we see here in this passage.
God closes the door.
He closes another door.
They're seeking the kingdom.
They're on mission.
They're pushing on doors and God opens a door.
And they go to Macedonia towards Philippi.
Now, I want to look at verse 10 again because
There's something remarkable in verse 10 that I think you may have missed.
Verse 10, it says this, and when Paul had seen the vision, immediately we sought to go into Macedonia, concluding that God had called us to preach the gospel to them.
This is amazing.
Did you see it?
There's something amazing here.
I'm afraid that you missed it.
You didn't see it, did you?
Okay, okay, let me explain it.
Here's what happens.
Listen, this is incredible, okay?
We've been reading Acts, we've been in Acts for a year, 15 chapters.
And Luke is the author of Acts.
And for 15 chapters, Luke has been telling us about everything that happens in Acts.
And everywhere he's spoken in the third person.
Paul went here, he did this, Peter did this, they did that.
It was about them.
But here in verse 10, for the first time, he uses the first person.
In verse 10, he says, immediately we sought to go into Macedonia.
And then he goes on, he said, God has called us to preach the gospel to them.
So think about what's been happening here with Luke.
He heard about the mission.
He wrote about the mission, but here he joins the mission.
The they turn into a we.
And this is exactly what I hope happens in our church today.
For many of you, mission is a third person reality.
They are sent out.
They share the gospel with others.
They make disciples.
But today, you can do like Luke and join the mission yourself.
We have a burden for the lost.
We are praying for a city.
We are talking with people about Jesus.
This is Christ's mission, but he calls all of us into it, amen?
And so this is what everyday mission looks like.
Not just stadium, stages, and big moments.
No, Jesus advances his mission through everyday faithfulness in navigating conflict, crossing cultural differences, and making spirit-led decisions.
But we've spent all of our time today talking about mission, and we are sent to proclaim a message, that is our mission, to proclaim this message of the good news of the kingdom of God.
We have to remember what that message is and what it's about.
And we have to remember that we can't reflect this good news unless we first receive it.
And so I want us to end by, we've been talking about getting the message out, but I want us to end by reminding ourselves of what this message is.
And this is the good news that while we are stuck in our sins,
While we are buried in our guilt and in our shame, while we are undone by the brokenness of this world, God's response is to look on us with compassion.
And when God sees you and your brokenness, what he wants to do is draw near to you.
That's his heart, is not to resist and move away, but to draw near to you.
And so he pursues us in his love and in his mercy.
I know that we're talking about the mission that God has given us in this city.
But we gotta start with God's mission towards us.
He is so passionate about you that he sent his own son.
And Jesus lived a life where he embodied the mercy and justice of God.
He showed what perfect love and holiness and justice looks like in a life.
Jesus touched the lepers.
He pursued those who were on the outskirts of society.
He confronted the hypocrites and then he took his perfect life and he offered it up as a sacrifice on the cross.
He died bearing our sin, bearing our shame and our guilt so that you can be forgiven, so that you can be washed clean,
so that you can be declared righteous, not because of what you do for God, but because of what God has done for you in Christ.
It's pure grace.
It's just because God is loving, because he's abounding in love for you, not just for humanity in general, but for you.
He died for your sins.
And it doesn't end there that he rose from the grave.
So that when we talk about Jesus, we're not just looking back at a historic figure trying to obey his teachings.
We can know a living savior who transforms us from the inside out.
He rose from the grave.
He ascended to the right hand of the Father, and then he poured out his Holy Spirit so that we could be a part of his mission moving forward.
Jesus is advancing his mission, and he's doing it through the church all over the world, empowered by the spirit, and he's doing it right here in Los Angeles.
Praise God.
And we get to be a part of this.
And I see something happening in our city.
I see people hungry for the gospel.
I see people who are not only open but eager and curious who are asking questions and showing up at church and looking for God.
I don't want to miss this moment.
I don't want you to miss this moment.
Jesus is on the move.
He's transforming people's lives and he invites us into that.
And so I want us to be recipients of the gospel first before we then reflect it.
So to my brothers in here, let me remind you, you were a son before you were a soldier.
Yes, God has worked for you to do, but he saves you to himself and he delights in you.
For the ladies in here, you were a daughter before you were a doer.
that you can do all kinds of things to help other people and glorify God.
But you're first and foremost, the daughter of the king and he delights in you.
And it's from that very place of being with God, abiding in him, that we then join in on his mission.
So it's just the overflow.
It's the overflow of our joy.
It's the overflow of our freedom.
It's the overflow of our peace in Christ and wanting to share that with others around us.
And sometimes it's gonna happen
in dramatic heroic moments and praise God for those.
But most of the time it's gonna happen through our quiet faithfulness, trusting Jesus every day.
Pray with me.
God, we thank you so much for your sacrificial pursuit of us, your mission to us.
Lord, I pray that we would just be overwhelmed by your grace.
I pray for anyone here today that doesn't know you as Lord and Savior
that they would open themselves to you, that they would confess their sin, that they would trust in you and accept you as Lord and Savior, and that they would commit to following you all the days of their life.
Lord, I pray for all of us who have done that, that you would help us to receive your grace and then reflect it to this world, and to see how your spirit is invading every aspect of our lives.
our workplaces, our homes, our neighborhoods, where we hang out.
You're there.
You're at work.
We're surrounded by people who need you.
And so would you give us wisdom?
Would you give us boldness?
Would you give us courage?
But Lord, ultimately, we pray that you would move and that you would save the lost.
We pray that you would draw us into that work that would be a people who follow up, who...
Share the good news of your son, Jesus, who pray for people who meet their needs physically, spiritually.
And Lord, we will give you all the glory for that.
It's your mission.
It's for your glory.
We pray this in your son's name.
Amen.
Thank you for listening.
For more audio and video content, please visit realityla.com.